Create a basic tutorial for DimensionalData - basic_tutorial.md (#1198)
rafaqz/DimensionalData.jl: docs/src/basic_tutorial.md

Reviewer: I think `Bins` is a Type not a function. 

"Or grouping by seasons using a `Bins` Type. The `Bins` type maps each lookup value into the bin it falls into"

Reviewer: great example!

Now, let's use DimensionalData to create a DimArray. A DimArray allows one to assign names and lookup values to the axes of an Array. This facilitates intuitive and persistent mapping between dimension coordinates and array values.

````@example dimensionaldata_tutorial
# DimensionalData provides four predefined dimension types: X, Y, Z, and Ti.
y = Y(lats)
x = X(lons)
ti = Ti(times)

temperature = DimArray(temperature_data, (y,x,ti))
````

DimArray displays metadata about the dimensions, with four predefined types: X, Y, Z, and Ti. It also shows the ranges for the lookups of our data, which are then displayed along our array.

In this case, they are ranges for the longitude, latitude, and time. For more context, we can create custom Dimension names:

````@example dimensionaldata_tutorial
latitude = Dim{:latitude}(lats)
longitude = Dim{:longitude}(lons)
time = Dim{:time}(times)

temperature = DimArray(temperature_data, (latitude, longitude, time))

# For our pressure data:
pressure = DimArray(pressure_data, (latitude, longitude, time))
````

Note that our dimensions are now named `latitude`, `longitude`, and `time`, rather than the predefined `Y`, `X`, and `Ti`.

> `Dim{:name}` is generally the simplest way to attach a custom name to an axis. We can also create custom dimensions using the `@dim` macro, which lets our named dimension inherit from an abstract supertype like `XDim` or `YDim` so methods that dispatch on axis type (e.g. plotting) accommodate our custom dimension directly. In other words, this allows us to directly relate a custom dimension like `Lat` to `YDim`, so `Lat` will be treated as the y-axis of our data. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`Dim{:name}` is generally the simplest way to attach a custom name to an axis. We can also create custom dimensions using the [`@dim`](@ref) macro, which lets our named dimension inherit from an abstract supertype like `XDim` or `YDim`.  Then, methods that dispatch on axis type (e.g. plotting) will accommodate our custom dimension directly. In other words, this allows us to directly relate a custom dimension like `Lat` to `YDim`, so `Lat` will be treated as the y-axis of our data. 
```

````@example dimensionaldata_tutorial
using DimensionalData: @dim, YDim, XDim

@dim Lat YDim "latitude"
@dim Lon XDim "longitude"
temperature_latlon = DimArray(temperature_data, (Lat(lats), Lon(lons), Ti(times)))
````

However, it is generally not necessary to use this macro manually, as IO packages handle dimension types when reading in data.

---

## Subset data using `At`, `Near`, `Touches`, and `Where`

> Now we will demonstrate some of the ways to work with DimArrays.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now we will demonstrate some of the ways to work with DimArrays using [selectors](@ref "Selectors").
```

First, we will show standard positional indexing, compared to DimensionalData's lookup-based indexing.

````@example dimensionaldata_tutorial
temperature[1, :, :] # standard positional indexing
````

`At` selects elements that match the lookup value exactly:

````@example dimensionaldata_tutorial
temperature[latitude = At(-89.5)] # the same data, using lookup-based indexing
````

Lookup-based indexing simplifies things because we can refer to elements by their lookup values rather than tracking their position in the array (i.e., the order of our data).

Back to the question, using a DimArray: *What was the temperature at a location in Los Angeles (34.2°N, 118.2°W) on day 90?*

> There are several Selector functions. For this problem, we would likely use either `At()` or `Near()`. `At()` requires an exact match, and errors if the coordinate we ask for is not an element in the lookup. I.e. our latitude lookup is -89.5:89.5, so 34.5 is an element in the lookup range while 34.2 is not.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are several inbuilt [Selectors](@ref Selectors). For this problem, we would likely use either `At()` or `Near()`. `At()` requires an exact match, and errors if the coordinate we ask for is not an element in the lookup. I.e. our latitude lookup is -89.5:89.5, so 34.5 is an element in the lookup range while 34.2 is not.
```

`Near` finds the closest entry to the specified coordinates.

````@example dimensionaldata_tutorial
temperature[latitude = Near(34.2), longitude = Near(-118.2), time = At(90)]
````

Expanding from looking at a single point observation, our next question is *What was the temperature across the western US on day 90?*

`Touches` selects all intervals that overlap with or share a boundary with the specified range. 

````@example dimensionaldata_tutorial
west_us = temperature[latitude = Touches(32, 49), longitude = Touches(-125, -102), time = At(90)]
````

We can then visualize the selected region by plotting a surface temperature heatmap for day 90.

````@example dimensionaldata_tutorial
heatmap(west_us'; colormap = :thermal, axis = (title = "Surface temperature (day 90) - Western US",))
````

Lastly, we may want to ask *What were the surface temperatures in the Northern Hemisphere during winter?*

> `Where` filters a dimension by passing each lookup value through a function. It is particularly useful when the selection condition cannot be expressed as a single contiguous range, or contains complex logic. Here, we select temperature observations during the Northern Hemisphere's winter (approx. the months of December, January, February):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`Where` filters a dimension by passing each lookup value through an arbitrary function. It's particularly useful when the selection condition cannot be expressed as a single contiguous range, or contains complex logic. 

Here, we select temperature observations during the Northern Hemisphere's winter (approx. the months of December, January, February):
```

````@example dimensionaldata_tutorial
# We use `Touches` to select the contiguous range of Northern Hemisphere latitudes, and `Where` for selecting winter days
winter = temperature[latitude = Touches(0, 90), time = Where(t -> t <= 60 || t >= 335)]
````

We can now calculate the average winter temperature at each point in the Northern Hemisphere and plot: 

````@example dimensionaldata_tutorial
winter_mean = dropdims(mean(winter, dims=:time), dims=:time)
heatmap(winter_mean'; colormap = :thermal, axis = (title = "Mean surface temperature - Northern Hemisphere winter",))
````

---

## Build a `DimStack`

> DimArrays are helpful, but only store one variable (i.e. our previous DimArray only stores temperature data). However, our data includes both temperature and pressure measurements. We can use a DimStack that allows us to store our pressure and temperature data within one object.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
DimArrays are helpful, but only store one variable (i.e. our previous DimArray only stores temperature data). However, our data includes both temperature and pressure measurements. We can use a [`DimStack`](@ref "DimStacks"), that allows us to store our pressure and temperature data in a single object.
```

temperature = DimArray(temperature_data, (latitude, longitude, time))

# For our pressure data:
pressure = DimArray(pressure_data, (latitude, longitude, time))
````

Note that our dimensions are now named `latitude`, `longitude`, and `time`, rather than the predefined `Y`, `X`, and `Ti`.

`Dim{:name}` is generally the simplest way to attach a custom name to an axis. We can also create custom dimensions using the [`@dim`](@ref) macro, which lets our named dimension inherit from an abstract supertype like `XDim` or `YDim`.  Then, methods that dispatch on axis type (e.g. plotting) will accommodate our custom dimension directly. In other words, this allows us to directly relate a custom dimension like `Lat` to `YDim`, so `Lat` will be treated as the y-axis of our data. 

````@example dimensionaldata_tutorial
using DimensionalData: @dim, YDim, XDim

@dim Lat YDim "latitude"
@dim Lon XDim "longitude"
temperature_latlon = DimArray(temperature_data, (Lat(lats), Lon(lons), Ti(times)))
````

However, it is generally not necessary to use this macro manually, as IO packages handle dimension types when reading in data.

---

## Subset data using `At`, `Near`, `Touches`, and `Where`

> Now we will demonstrate some of the ways to work with DimArrays using [selectors](@ref "Selectors").

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now we will demonstrate some of the ways to work with DimArrays using [selectors](selectors.md).
```

First, we will show standard positional indexing, compared to DimensionalData's lookup-based indexing.

````@example dimensionaldata_tutorial
temperature[1, :, :] # standard positional indexing
````

`At` selects elements that match the lookup value exactly:

````@example dimensionaldata_tutorial
temperature[latitude = At(-89.5)] # the same data, using lookup-based indexing
````

Lookup-based indexing simplifies things because we can refer to elements by their lookup values rather than tracking their position in the array (i.e., the order of our data).

Back to the question, using a DimArray: *What was the temperature at a location in Los Angeles (34.2°N, 118.2°W) on day 90?*

> There are several inbuilt [Selectors](@ref Selectors). For this problem, we would likely use either `At()` or `Near()`. `At()` requires an exact match, and errors if the coordinate we ask for is not an element in the lookup. I.e. our latitude lookup is -89.5:89.5, so 34.5 is an element in the lookup range while 34.2 is not.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are several inbuilt [Selectors](selectors.md). For this problem, we would likely use either `At()` or `Near()`. `At()` requires an exact match, and errors if the coordinate we ask for is not an element in the lookup. I.e. our latitude lookup is -89.5:89.5, so 34.5 is an element in the lookup range while 34.2 is not.
```

# Getting Started

In this tutorial, we're going to:

> 1. [Generate synthetic satellite data and understand its limitations as a plain array](#generate-synthetic-data)

Reviewer: For simplicity change to "1. Create synthetic data"

2. [Build a `DimArray` with named dimensions and label-based indexing](#building-a-dimarray)
3. [Subset data using `At`, `Near`, `Touches`, and `Where`](#working-with-dimarrays)
4. [Combine multiple variables into a `DimStack`](#building-a-dimstack)
5. [Convert units and time coordinates using broadcasting and `set`](#step-1-temperature-conversion)

> 6. [Compute a monthly climatology using `groupby`](#using-groupby)

Reviewer: remove "monthly" from "Compute a monthly climatology using"

> 7. [Calculate temperature anomalies to identify a heatwave](#step-3-calculating-temperature-anomalies)

Reviewer: That is the goal of "Calculate temperature anomalies to identify a heatwave"... is it "Compute statistics using `map`"

> 8. [Build a stack with layers that don't share all dimensions](#question-2-how-do-our-weather-stations-compare-to-the-global-mean)

Reviewer: "Build a stack with layers that don't share all dimensions" => "Build a DimStack of DimArrays with differing shared dimensions"

> 9. [Compare station observations to the global daily mean using `@d`](#comparing-station-temperatures-to-the-global-daily-mean)

Reviewer: "Compare station observations to the global daily mean using" => "Dimension aware operations using `@d`"

> 

Reviewer: change titles of sections according to above suggestions

---

## Setup

> 

Reviewer: include Pkg.add(....

First, we have to import DimensionalData and supporting packages:

````@example dimensionaldata_tutorial
using DimensionalData
using Statistics
using Random
using Dates
using CairoMakie

> Random.seed!(42);

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Random.seed!(42)
```

````

---

## Generate Synthetic Data

> Toy data: A weather satellite records daily surface temperature and surface pressure on a 1° global grid for one year.

Reviewer: "Toy data: A weather satellite records daily surface temperature and surface pressure on a 1° global grid for one year."

to

"Synthetic data: One year of daily surface temperature and pressure on a 1° by 1° global grid"

````@example dimensionaldata_tutorial
# 1° global grid, daily for a year.
lat  = range(-89.5, 89.5,  step = 1);
lon  = range(-179.5, 179.5, step = 1);

> time = 1:365;

Reviewer 2: why the semicolons?

> time = 1:365;

Reviewer 2: Generally we'd have these as plural, so `lats lons times`, to distinguish from variables named `lat lon time` which hold single things

> time = 1:365;

Reviewer: lat  = range(-89.5, 89.5,  step = 1);
lon  = range(-179.5, 179.5, step = 1);
time = 1:365;

to 

lat  = -89.5:89.5
lon  = -179.5:179.5
time = 1:365;

> # Seasonal amplitude (K) as a function of latitude: tropics barely change, poles swing a lot.

Reviewer: "tropics barely change, poles swing a lot." => "low seasonal variability near equator, high seasonal variability near poles"

> season_amp(la) = 25 * (abs(la) / 90);

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
season_amp(lat) = 25 * (abs(lat) / 90);
```

generally descriptive names are better, even if more characters

# Day 1 = Jan 1 (Northern Hemisphere winter).
seasonal(la, t) = season_amp(la) * sign(la) *

>                   cos(2π * (t - 172) / 365);   # day 172 ≈ June 21

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Day 1 = Jan 1 (Northern Hemisphere winter).
seasonal(lat, t) = season_amp(lat) * sign(lat) *
                  cos(2π * (t - 172) / 365);   # day 172 ≈ June 21
```

> # Toy temperature (K): latitudinal gradient + seasonal cycle + noise.

Reviewer: "Toy" => "Synthetic"

temperature_data = [300 - 60 * abs(la / 90) + seasonal(la, t) + 3 * randn()
                    for la in lat, lo in lon, t in time];

# Inject a synthetic July heatwave over Europe (+80 K).
for (i, la) in enumerate(lat), (j, lo) in enumerate(lon),
    (k, t) in enumerate(time)
    if 40 <= la <= 55 && 0 <= lo <= 30 && 180 <= t <= 210
        temperature_data[i, j, k] += 80.0
    end
end

> # Toy surface pressure (hPa): simplified coupling to temperature

Reviewer: "Toy" => "Synthetic"

baseline_temp = [300 - 60 * abs(la / 90) for la in lat, lo in lon, t in time];
temp_anom     = temperature_data .- baseline_temp;

pressure_baseline = [1013 - 10 * cosd(2 * la) for la in lat, lo in lon, t in time];
pressure_noise    = 2 .* randn(size(temperature_data));
pressure_data     = pressure_baseline .- 0.5 .* temp_anom .+ pressure_noise;
````

> This creates two arrays, one for temperature and one for pressure, each with (unnamed) dimensions 180×360×365 representing latitude, longitude, and time. Each element is a lat/lon/time pair for the entire globe.

Reviewer: "This creates two arrays, one for temperature and one for pressure, each with (unnamed) dimensions 180×360×365 representing latitude, longitude, and time. Each element is a lat/lon/time pair for the entire globe."

"The above code creates two 3D `Arrays`, one for temperature and one for pressure, each with dimensions 180×360×365 representing latitude, longitude, and time."

````@example dimensionaldata_tutorial
temperature_data[1:5, 1:5, 1]
````

> Note that this array does not (and cannot) have names for the latitude/longitude/time axes. It lacks context that makes it impractical to easily refer to specific temperature or pressure observations at some location.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note that this (standard Julia) array does not (and cannot) have names for the latitude/longitude/time axes. It lacks that context, making it impractical to easily refer to specific temperature or pressure observations at some physical location.
```

> Note that this array does not (and cannot) have names for the latitude/longitude/time axes. It lacks context that makes it impractical to easily refer to specific temperature or pressure observations at some location.

Reviewer: I would delete:

"Note that this array does not (and cannot) have names for the latitude/longitude/time axes. It lacks context that makes it impractical to easily refer to specific temperature or pressure observations at some location."

As the idea of named dimensions has not yet been introduced

> Suppose we ask: *"What was the temperature at JPL (34.2°N, 118.17°W) on day 90?"*

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Suppose we ask: *"What was the temperature at NASA JPL (34.2°N, 118.17°W) on day 90?"*
```

surprisingly few people know what JPL is :D

> Suppose we ask: *"What was the temperature at JPL (34.2°N, 118.17°W) on day 90?"*

Reviewer: maybe change example for "temperature at JPL" to "temperature in Los Angeles"

> With a plain array, we have to translate coordinates into positional indices ourselves:

Reviewer: "translate coordinates" => "translate dimensional coordinates"

````@example dimensionaldata_tutorial

> temperature_data[findfirst(==(34.5), lat), findfirst(==(-118.5), lon), 90]

Reviewer: separate out index intensification:
e.g.
```
i =  findfirst(==(34.5), lat)
j = findfirst(==(-118.5), lon)
k = 90
temperature_data[i,j,k]
```

````

> This works, but it is cumbersome and requires us to refer to the lat/lon/time ranges generated earlier, rather than referring to metadata stored in the array object. In other words, the array does not carry its own context.

Reviewer: "This works, but it is cumbersome and requires us to refer to the lat/lon/time ranges generated earlier, rather than referring to metadata stored in the array object. In other words, the array does not carry its own context."

to 

"Translating between dimension coordinates and array indices is a common operation when working with dimensional data. Such translations are onerous and can be difficult to track as the complexity of the code increases. DimensionalData provides a high level abstraction for working with such data.

---

## Building a DimArray

> Now, let's use DimensionalData to create a DimArray. A DimArray wraps the same data as our standard array, but allows us to explicitly name our dimensions, and assign lookup values to these axes. This preserves the context of our data better than a standard array.

Reviewer: "A DimArray wraps the same data as our standard array, but allows us to explicitly name our dimensions, and assign lookup values to these axes. This preserves the context of our data better than a standard array."

to 

"A DimArray allows one to assign names and lookup values to the axes of an Array. This facilitates intuitive and persistent mapping between dimension coordinates and array values "

````@example dimensionaldata_tutorial

> # DimensionalData provides four default dimension types: X, Y, Z, and Ti.

Reviewer: X, Y, Z, Ti are not defaults, they are predefined dimensions

> temperature = DimArray(temperature_data, (Y(lat), X(lon), Ti(time)))

Reviewer: temperature = DimArray(temperature_data, (Y(lat), X(lon), Ti(time)))

to 

y = Y(lat)
x = X(lon)
ti = Ti(time)

temperature = DimArray(temperature_data, (y,x,ti))

````

> DimArray displays metadata about the dimensions, which use the default names X, Y, and Ti. It also shows the ranges for the lookups of our data, which are then displayed along our array.

Reviewer: again, X,Y,Z, Ti are predefined dimensions, not defaults.

> In this case, they are ranges for the longitude. latitude, and time. For more context, we can create custom Dimension names:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In this case, they are ranges for the longitude, latitude, and time. For more context, we can create custom Dimension names:
```

> In this case, they are ranges for the longitude, latitude, and time. For more context, we can create custom Dimension names:

Reviewer 2: do we want to create custom dimensions instead with `@dim`? That lets you give them X nature or Y nature too.

Author: While `@dim` may be better in implementation, DD docs primarily use something like Dim{:a}(1). The macro is only covered in the API Reference, and possibly too complex for someone getting started. 

A note mentioning `@dim` as a way to create custom dimensions might suffice?

Reviewer 3: You should use ` before and after the macro name otherwise you will always ping certain people on github whose username is the macro name by chance. 

I think we should show the use of `@dim` and mention that this is mostly not necessary to do by hand because this will be done by the IO packages.

Author: My bad, thanks for the tip. I think that is a good idea.

````@example dimensionaldata_tutorial

> temperature = DimArray(temperature_data, (Dim{:latitude}(lat), Dim{:longitude}(lon), Dim{:time}(time)))

Reviewer: temperature = DimArray(temperature_data, (Dim{:latitude}(lat), Dim{:longitude}(lon), Dim{:time}(time)))

to 

latitude = Dim{:Latitude}(lat)
longitude = Dim{:Longitude}(lon)
time = Dim{:Time}(time)
temperature = DimArray(temperature_data, (latitude, longitude, time))

# For our pressure data:

> pressure = DimArray(pressure_data, (Dim{:latitude}(lat), Dim{:longitude}(lon), Dim{:time}(time)))

Reviewer: pressure = DimArray(pressure_data, (latitude, longitude, time))

````

> Note that our dimensions are now named `latitude`, `longitude`, and `time`, rather than the default `Y`, `X`, and `Ti`.

Reviewer: `Latitude`, `Longitude`, and `Time`,

---

## Working with DimArrays

Now we will demonstrate some of the ways to work with DimArrays.

First, we will show standard positional indexing, compared to DimensionalData's label-based indexing.

````@example dimensionaldata_tutorial
temperature[latitude = 1] # standard positional indexing

> temperature[latitude = At(-89.5)] # the same data, using label-based indexing

Reviewer 2: Could be good to show the equivalent with the regular array, since this slices across the other dimensions implicitly - which we don't mention here.  Also, good to break this up into two cells so users can see both.

> temperature[latitude = At(-89.5)] # the same data, using label-based indexing

Reviewer: using label-based indexing => using lookup-based indexing

````

> Label-based indexing simplifies the indexing process because we can use the lookups to refer to specific elements by name, rather than needing to consider the order of our data (its index positions).

Reviewer: Should it be "Label-based"  or "Lookup-based"... check docs

> Back to the question, using a DimArray: *What was the temperature at JPL (34.2°N, 118.17°W) on day 90?*

Reviewer: at JPL

to 

in Los Angeles

> There are several Selector functions. For this problem, we would likely use either `At()` or `Near()`. `At()` requires an exact match, and errors if the coordinate we ask for is not an element in the lookup. I.e. our latitude lookup is 33.5, 34.5, 35.5... and 34.2 is not an element in that range.

Reviewer: "I.e. our latitude lookup is 33.5, 34.5, 35.5... and 34.2 is not an element in that range."

to

"I.e. our latitude lookup is -89.5:89.5.. so 34.5 is an element in the lookup range while 34.2 is not."
lat = -89.5:89.5

`Near` finds the closest entry to the specified coordinates.

````@example dimensionaldata_tutorial

> temperature[latitude = Near(34.2003), longitude = Near(-118.1711), time = At(90)]

Reviewer: temperature[latitude = Near(34.2), longitude = Near(-118.2), time = At(90)]

````

Next, we want to select all temperature data from the western US on day 90.

`Touches` selects all intervals that overlap with or share a boundary with the specified range. 

````@example dimensionaldata_tutorial
west_us = temperature[latitude = Touches(32, 49), longitude = Touches(-125, -102), time = At(90)]
````

Selecting this data is analogous to making a bounding box to subset data. We will visualize this by plotting global surface temperature data, with a bounding box containing the data we selected.

````@example dimensionaldata_tutorial

> field = temperature[:, :, 90]

Reviewer: Can you just do:

heatmap(temperature[:, :, time = At(90)])

?

Author: Not exactly, but I can simplify the code so it looks cleaner and still show the "bounding box". Actually may make more sense to do something like: heatmap(west_us[:, :, 90]') - will try some things out

fig = Figure()
ax  = Axis(fig[1, 1];
           title  = "Global surface temperature (day 90) - western US bounding box",
           xlabel = "Longitude", ylabel = "Latitude")
hm  = heatmap!(ax, lookup(field, :longitude), lookup(field, :latitude),
               parent(field)';
               colormap = :thermal)
# Overlay the bounding box as a rectangle:
lines!(ax, [-125, -102, -102, -125, -125], [32, 32, 49, 49, 32];
       color = :white, linewidth = 2)
Colorbar(fig[1, 2], hm; label = "Temperature (K)")
fig
````

Next, we want to create a bounding box selecting data in the tropical zone (between -23.5 and 23.5).

> We use the `Where()` function which filters a dimension by passing each lookup value through a function. We pass an anonymous function that returns true when the absolute value of the latitude is less than or equal to 23.5.

Reviewer: This `Where()` example seems like it would be better handled with a `Touches` or between (`..` ). Maybe you could select "mid latitudes" of both hemispheres 30 <= abs(latitude) <= 60

````@example dimensionaldata_tutorial
tropics = temperature[latitude = Where(la -> abs(la) <= 23.5), time = At(90)]
````

````@example dimensionaldata_tutorial

> fig = Figure()

Reviewer: update plotting

field   = temperature[:, :, 90]
ax  = Axis(fig[1, 1];
           title  = "Global surface temperature (day 90) — tropics",
           xlabel = "Longitude", ylabel = "Latitude")
hm  = heatmap!(ax, lookup(field, :longitude), lookup(field, :latitude),
               parent(field)';
               colormap = :thermal)
# Overlay the tropical band boundaries at ±23.5°:
hlines!(ax, [-23.5, 23.5]; color = :white, linewidth = 2)
Colorbar(fig[1, 2], hm; label = "Temperature (K)")
fig

> ````

Reviewer 2: This block seems underdescribed, what's the motivation?

Author: The motivation of the section is to introduce/demonstrate selectors by asking some simple questions about our data. I revised it to be more intentional in defining the questions and then using the corresponding selector to answer it.

---

## Building a DimStack

> DimArrays are helpful, but only store one variable (i.e. our previous DimArray only stores temperature data). However, our satellite data includes both temperature and pressure measurements. We can use a DimStack that allows us to store our pressure and temperature data within one object.

Reviewer: remove "satellite"

````@example dimensionaldata_tutorial

> satellite_data = DimStack((temperature = temperature, pressure = pressure))

Reviewer: change "satellite_data" to "climate"... throughout

````

> A DimStack is a collection of layers (DimArrays) that share some or all dimensions. In our example, temperature and pressure share all of the same dimensions, and thus share the same lookups.

Reviewer: I don't think there is any requirement that DimArrays must share a dimension... so the wording need to be adjusted. 

maybe change to:

A DimStack is a collection of layers (DimArrays) that may share some or all dimensions. In our example, temperature and pressure share all of the same dimensions, and thus share the same lookups.

Working with our data bundled in a stack means we can index or slice both layers at once.

> Suppose we want to view temperature and pressure near JPL on day 90. Instead of indexing temperature and pressure individually, we can index the DimStack:

Reviewer: JPL to Los Angeles

````@example dimensionaldata_tutorial

> satellite_data[latitude = Near(34.2003), longitude = Near(-118.1711), time = At(90)]

Reviewer: Near(34.2), longitude = Near(-118.2)

````

And we can access individual layers with dot syntax:

````@example dimensionaldata_tutorial

> satellite_data.pressure

Reviewer: or index using a Symbol:
```
satellite_data[:pressure]
```

````

Now we want to demonstrate DimensionalData in the context of some simple real-world questions.

---

## Question 1: Where on Earth was unusually warm in July?

To answer this question, we will need three things:

> 1. Convert temperature units from Kelvin to Celsius

Reviewer: conversion from Kelvin to Celsius is not needed to answer the above question... maybe you can modify the question to make this a necessity?

Author: The idea was to show broadcasting works to mutate the content of our array (and not the metadata), but I think it fits better as a note than an individual step. So temperature is just in C by default now.

2. Convert our time lookup from an integer range, `1:365`, to something more meaningful
3. Calculate temperature anomalies to identify a heatwave

### Step 1: Temperature Conversion

Standard broadcasting to the temperature array allows us to convert to Celsius. Note that we can directly mutate the contents of our layers within the stack. 

````@example dimensionaldata_tutorial
satellite_data.temperature .-= 273.15
````

### Step 2: Time Conversion

> Now we want to convert our time dimension so that it has clear dates available to index by.

Reviewer: Now we want to convert our time dimension so that it has clear dates available to index by.

to 

Now we want to convert our time dimension from integer days since December 31, 2013 to a human readable date format.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now we want to convert our time dimension from integer days since December 31, 2013 to a human readable date format.
```

> Note: While we can mutate the *values* inside of a `DimArray`/`DimStack` layer (as we just did converting to Celsius), the *lookups* themselves are immutable (i.e. cannot be changed once the object is built). 

To change a lookup, we rebuild the object with `set` rather than assigning into it. 

````@example dimensionaldata_tutorial
# We create a new range using the Dates package.

> new_time_range = range(DateTime(2024), step = Day(1), length = 365)

Reviewer: I wonder if we introduce DateTime right at the start of the tutorial instead of here...

Reviewer: actually, I guess introducing it here demonstrates rebuilding.

````@example dimensionaldata_tutorial
# Step 1
climatology_daily = monthly_climatology[month = At(month.(new_time_range))]
# month.(new_time_range) gives the month number for all 365 days
# At(...) repeats each monthly mean across that month's days, expanding the array to 180×360×365

# Step 2
climatology_daily = set(climatology_daily, :month => Dim{:time}(new_time_range))
# The new axis is still named month, so relabel it time with the matching DateTime lookup

# Axes now align and the subtraction is a plain broadcast:
anomalies = satellite_data.temperature .- climatology_daily
````

We now have a DimArray where every lat/lon/day pair is a temperature anomaly, to show us how much the temperature at each day deviates from its respective month's mean temperature. We will visualize one day of temperature anomaly to inspect what we just did.

````@example dimensionaldata_tutorial
july_day = anomalies[time = At(DateTime(2024, 7, 15))]
# We choose July 15th "arbitrarily" (the toy data has a heatwave added in the summer).

> fig, ax, hm = heatmap(lookup(july_day, :longitude), lookup(july_day, :latitude), parent(july_day)';

Reviewer: Try replacing with:

"heatmap(july_day)"

                      colormap = :balance, colorrange = (-15, 15),
                      axis = (title = "Temperature anomaly, 2024-07-15 (°C)", xlabel = "Longitude", ylabel = "Latitude"))
Colorbar(fig[1, 2], hm)
fig
````

---

> ## Question 2: How do our weather stations compare to the global mean?

Reviewer: I'm not sure this example all that helpful. What capabilities are you trying to demonstrate? Maybe we can come up with a better example.

In this tutorial, we're going to:

1. [Create synthetic data](#create-synthetic-data)
2. [Build a `DimArray` with named dimensions and lookup-based indexing](#building-a-dimarray)
3. [Subset data using `At`, `Near`, `Touches`, and `Where`](#working-with-dimarrays)
4. [Combine multiple variables into a `DimStack`](#building-a-dimstack)
5. [Convert temperature units and time coordinates using broadcasting and `set`](#convert-temperature-units-and-time-coordinates-using-broadcasting-and-set)
6. [Compute climatology using `groupby`](#compute-climatology-using-groupby)
7. [Compute statistics using `map`](#compute-statistics-using-map)
8. [Build a DimStack of DimArrays with differing shared dimensions](#question-2-how-do-our-weather-stations-compare-to-the-global-mean)

> 9. [Dimension-aware operations using `@d`](#comparing-station-temperatures-to-the-global-daily-mean)

Reviewer 4: This section is not actually in the tutorial now. But it would be good to introduce `@d`!
